TLI logging documentation (#35146)
ydb-platform/ydb: ydb/docs/en/core/troubleshooting/performance/queries/tli-logging.md

# TLI logging

[Transaction lock invalidation](../../../concepts/glossary.md#tli) (TLI) logging lets you identify which query had its locks broken (the **victim**) and which query broke them (the **breaker**).

## Enabling logging

To get detailed logs about lock conflicts, set the `INFO` level (numeric value `6`) for the `TLI` component.

Add the following to the cluster configuration:

```yaml
log_config:
  entry:
    - component: "TLI"
      level: 6  # INFO
```

The `log_config` parameter [supports dynamic updates](../../../devops/configuration-management/configuration-v1/dynamic-config.md) without node restarts.

Once enabled, the server writes logs on every lock conflict, and `VictimQuerySpanId` begins appearing in SDK error messages.

{% note info %}

> Each TLI event generates approximately 10–20 KB of logs. If conflicts are infrequent, the logging overhead is negligible. At high TLI rates, monitor the total log volume.

Author: ```suggestion
The base log size for a single TLI event is 10-20 KB. The actual volume depends on the size of the text of the logged requests (the breaker and the victim) and the transactions of which they are part, since all this data is recorded in the log.
If conflicts are infrequent, the logging overhead is negligible. At high TLI rates, monitor the total log volume.
```
